Build overview (#14908)
docker/docker.github.io: build/builders.md

---
title: Using Docker Build
description: About building with existing builders
keywords: build, buildx, buildkit
---

## Docker Build Components

Currently Engine holds two build components:
* Legacy Builder - Old builder implementation. It's executed through the `docker build` command.

> * Buildkit - Active by default in new and latest installations of Docker. It's executed through the `docker buildx build` command.

Reviewer: In new installations, `docker build` uses BuildKit (not sure if we should mention buildx here)

### Docker Build Default Configuration

The backend you have active depends on your Docker's installation.
If you have installed:

* __Docker Desktop (all platforms)__: BuildKit is enabled by default; no additional configuration is required.
* In Linux, if you have:
  * Engine 18.09 and higher you have BuildKit enabled by default.

>   * Engine releases older than 18.09 only include the Legacy Builder component, so we highly recommend you upgrade your installation or alternatively install Docker Desktop.

Reviewer: These are really old version, and EOL for four years. In general, we write the docs for the current version, and should avoid old versions (unless there a very strong need)

Author: This is not in the PR after the last commit. @crazy-max will remove the builders file so we can rework it in a new PR, if there's anything on there that we need re config for example.

> 

Author: I'm told to add extra lines after before headers, now the question is how many. Is the magic number 1?

> ### Docker Build Configuration

Author: I need to revisit the page to freshen up my mind, but the there are two different needs here 1) what is pre-defined (this was the intended meaning for default config) in a user's installation based on their Engine version and 2) in contexts where you want to change this configuration how to you do it. what are the options.

Backend configuration is performed using the `DOCKER_BUILDKIT` environment variable. 

If not yet set as default, to set the BuildKit as the default backend behind the `docker build` command, you can:

__Method 1__

From your console, run:

```console
$ DOCKER_BUILDKIT=1 docker build .
```
` 

> Depending on the value for this variable:
> * __DOCKER_BUILDKIT=1__ - BuildKit is executed both when you issue the `docker build` and `docker buildx build` command. With this configuration `docker build` becomes an alias for `docker buildx build`.
> * __DOCKER_BUILDKIT=0__ - When you issue `docker build` the build is executed using the Legacy Builder and BuildKit when you issue the `docker buildx build` command.

Reviewer 2: This is confusing and I don't think we need that level of explanation as it's already implied previously.

___

> * __DOCKER_BUILDKIT=1__ - BuildKit is executed both when you issue the `docker build` and `docker buildx build` command.

Also this is not correct, BuildKit is always enabled with buildx and does not require `DOCKER_BUILDKIT=1` environment variable so we should only talk about `docker build` command here.

> With this configuration `docker build` becomes an alias for `docker buildx build`.

This is correct for Docker 22.06 but again this is confusing as user might think it would work with Docker 20.10 which is not the case.

> When you issue `docker build` the build is executed using the Legacy Builder and BuildKit when you issue the `docker buildx build` command.

Remove " and BuildKit when you issue the `docker buildx build` command."

___

If you still want to add these lines, then 

```suggestion
Depending on the value for this variable:
* __DOCKER_BUILDKIT=1__ - BuildKit is enabled for your build and starting Docker 22.06, `docker build` becomes an alias for `docker buildx build`.
* __DOCKER_BUILDKIT=0__ - Your build will use the Legacy builder.
```

> > See this [deprecation notice](https://github.com/docker/cli/blob/master/docs/deprecated.md#legacy-builder-for-linux-images).

Reviewer 2: We should not link to external markdown files but internal link of our doc.

Author: I'm not sure what this is anymore, was this your earlier content?

> __Method2__

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
__Method 2__
```

To enable BuildKit backend by default, set [daemon configuration](/engine/reference/commandline/dockerd/#daemon-configuration-file)
in `/etc/docker/daemon.json` feature to `true` and restart the daemon. If the
`daemon.json` file doesn't exist, create new file called `daemon.json` and then
add the following to the file:

```json
{
  "features": {
    "buildkit": true
  }
}
```

### `docker buildx build` command and BuildKit

Regardless of your build backend configuration, when you issue the [`docker buildx build` command](../engine/reference/commandline/buildx_build.md) you are, by design of the command, always executing a build with Buildkit.
See also, [Build with Buildx](../buildx/working-with-buildx.md#build-with-buildx) guide for more details.

> ## `docker build` command and Legacy Builder

Reviewer 2: Heading level incorrect? Also missing new line after

> To perform a build with the Legacy Builder because you need, for example, to build a Windows image (Link to Backends support) you need to have `DOCKER_BUILDKIT` set as `0` and use the `docker build` command. 

Reviewer 2: I think we should simply name this section "Legacy builder" and explain when and how to use it as well as its limitation compared to BuildKit, its deprecation notice (link to internal engine deprecation page) with Docker versions?

Author: I think we need to align on content, maybe by also asking someone else what they think.
I'm trying to clarify the matrix backend/CLI, you kind of see it as just having 2 builders.
